# 1.1 How to use this book（如何使用这本书）

A Philosophy of Software Design

Many of the design principles described here are somewhat abstract, so they may be hard to appreciate without looking at actual code. It has been a challenge to find examples that are small enough to include in the book, yet large enough to illustrate problems with real systems \(if you encounter good examples, please send them to me\). Thus, this book may not be sufficient by itself for you to learn how to apply the principles.

The best way to use this book is in conjunction with code reviews. When you read other people’s code, think about whether it conforms to the concepts discussed here and how that relates to the complexity of the code. It’s easier to see design problems in someone else’s code than your own. You can use the red flags described here to identify problems and suggest improvements. Reviewing code will also expose you to new design approaches and programming techniques.

One of the best ways to improve your design skills is to learn to recognize red flags: signs that a piece of code is probably more complicated than it needs to be. Over the course of this book I will point out red flags that suggest problems related to each major design issue; the most important ones are summarized at the back of the book. You can then use these when you are coding: when you see a red flag, stop and look for an alternate design that eliminates the problem. When you first try this approach, you may have to try several design alternatives before you find one that eliminates the red flag. Don’t give up easily: the more alternatives you try before fixing the problem, the more you will learn. Over time, you will find that your code has fewer and fewer red flags, and your designs are cleaner and cleaner. Your experience will also show you other red flags that you can use to identify design problems \(I’d be happy to hear about these\).

When applying the ideas from this book, it’s important to use moderation and discretion. Every rule has its exceptions, and every principle has its limits. If you take any design idea to its extreme, you will probably end up in a bad place. Beautiful designs reflect a balance between competing ideas and approaches. Several chapters have sections titled “Taking it too far,” which describe how to recognize when you are overdoing a good thing.

Almost all of the examples in this book are in Java or C++, and much of the discussion is in terms of designing classes in an object-oriented language. However, the ideas apply in other domains as well. Almost all of the ideas related to methods can also be applied to functions in a language without object-oriented features, such as C. The design ideas also apply to modules other than classes, such as subsystems or network services.

With this background, let’s discuss in more detail what causes complexity, and how to make software systems simpler.

